---
author: Joakim
date: 25.05.2024
---

# Exam 2017

## Task 1 - Requirements Engineering

### Task 1.1 Requirement Quality

- Ambiguity
- Inconsistency
- Forward referencing
- Opacity
- Noise

- **Req1:**
  - **Desription:** The robot is witched on and off with a button on the instrument panel.
  - **Issues:**
    - **Forward referencing:** What is the instrument panel and where is it located?
    - **Opacity:** Is the button physical or digital? Are there multiple buttons on the panel? Which on should turn the robot on/off?
  - **Fix:** The robot is switched on and off by pressing the button labeled "power" on the intrument panel on the top of the robot.
- **Req2:**
  - **Description:** When the robot identifies that the snow on the ground around itself reaches a certain depth, the robot should automatically start and move to clear the snow.
  - **Issues:**
    - **Ambiguity:** At what depths should it start moving?
    - **Opacity:** What does it mean that the robots identifies?
  - **Fix:** The robot shall turn on and start to clear snow when sensors detect a snow depth of 2cm.
- **Req3:**
  - **Description:** When the user presses the remote-control key, the user can take over and have a full control of the robot to be ablt to move it forward, move it backward, make it turn left, and make it turn right. However, the robot can still make its own decision to move or not.
  - **Issues:**
    - **Noise:** Long requirment with unessecary description of how the user can make the robot turn.
    - **Inconsistency:** The user has "full control" of how to move it, but the robot can still make its own decisions?
    - **Ambiguity:** How does the user control the direction?
  - **Fix:** As a user, I should be able to control the robot by turning a control stick in the app on my mobile device.
- **Req4:**
  - **Descripbiton:** When the air temperature is below 0 degree Celsius, the robot should automaticall go to the charge site to charge its battery.
  - **Issues:**
    - **Inconsistency:** Req2 says it should move snow when it detects a certain snow depths and this req says it should go recharge when the air temperature is below 0 degree.
    - **Opacity:** How does it know where the charge site is?
  - **Fix:** The robot should automatically return to the charge site when the battery is below 10% using an integrated GPS system.
- **Req5:**
  - **Description:** The robot should be able to identify obstacles and avoid collision with the obstalces.
  - **Issues:**
    - **Opacity:** How can it detect ovstacles?
  - **Fix:** Using LIDAR and camera sensors, the robot should detect and avoid collision with obstalce.
- **Req6:**
  - **Description:** The robot should be able to turn to a safe mode when it is in an unsafe environment.
  - **Issues:**
    - **Opcaity:** What is "a safe mode" and what is "an unsafe environment"?
    - **Ambiguity:** When it is in the unsafe enviromnet and not?
  - **Fix:** The robot should lower it speed to 1km/h when sensors detecs obstacles in the robots path.
- **Req7:**
  - **Description:** The robot should maintain a safe speed when clearing the snow.
  - **Issues:**
    - **Ambiguity:** What is a safe speed?
  - **Fix:** The robot should maintain a speed of 3km/h when clearing the snow.
- **Req8:**
  - **Description:** The robot should be able to blink the light to another snow clearing robot to say hello when they meet.
  - **Issues:**
    - **Forward referencing:** Multiple robots working on the same network
    - **Noise:** "to say hello" is uneccessary. Just specify that the should blink their light.
  - **Fix:** When multiple robots are linked together, they shall blink their lights to each other when they detect each other with their sensors.

### Task 1.3 Requirement prioritization

#### Cumulative voting

Each stakeholder gets a fixed amount of point (e.g. 100) and gives each requirment some of the points. The requirements with the most points after every stakeholders have given out their points is to be implemented first:

1. Req3 (30): Will also help with Req1
2. Req4 (25): Important for the environment
3. Req5 (20): Want to reward pedestriance for choosing to walk
4. Req6 (10): Use reports to optimize the system further
5. Req1 (15): Ability to check log for defects
6. Req2 (0): Emergency vehicle can bypass the rules of traffic lights anyways so don't need to prioritize them.

#### Binary priority

Compare each pair of requirements one-by-one. Give 1 point to the most important requirements of the pair. Sum the total points. The requirements with the most points are to be implemented first:

|      | Req1 | Req2 | Req3 | Req4 | Req5 | Req6 | Total points |
| ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ------------ |
| Req1 | x    | 1    | 0    | 0    | 0    | 0    | 1            |
| Req2 | 0    | x    | 0    | 0    | 0    | 0    | 0            |
| Req3 | 1    | 1    | x    | 1    | 1    | 1    | 5            |
| Req4 | 1    | 1    | 0    | x    | 1    | 1    | 4            |
| Req5 | 1    | 1    | 0    | 0    | x    | 1    | 3            |
| Req6 | 1    | 1    | 0    | 0    | 0    | x    | 2            |

1. Req3
2. Req4
3. Req5
4. Req6
5. Req1
6. Req2

## Task 2 - Testing

### Task 2.1 Domain testing

| ID  | Input 1 | Input 2 |
| --- | ------- | ------- |
| 1   | AVA     | CC      |
| 2   | AVA     | GV      |
| 3   | NIS     | CC      |
| 4   | NIS     | GV      |
| 5   | DIS     | CC      |
| 6   | DIS     | GV      |
| 7   | AVA     | MA      |
| 8   | AVA     | UPS     |
| 9   | AVA     | FE      |
| 10  | NIS     | MA      |
| 11  | NIS     | UPS     |
| 12  | NIS     | FE      |
| 13  | DIS     | MA      |
| 14  | DIS     | UPS     |
| 15  | DIS     | FE      |
| 16  | CC      | MA      |
| 17  | CC      | UPS     |
| 18  | CC      | FE      |
| 19  | GV      | MA      |
| 20  | GV      | UPS     |
| 21  | GV      | FE      |

### Task 2.2 Regression testing

Sub-set should consisnt of test t3 and t4 as they are the only tests that reaches the changes statement `return b*b -> return a*b`

### Tast 2.3 Dataflow testing and test coverage

| x   | y   | Path                           |
| --- | --- | ------------------------------ |
| 0   | 0   | 1, 2, 3                        |
| 1   | 0   | 1, 2, 4, 5                     |
| 1   | 1   | 1, 2, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 7, 10, 11 |

## Task 3 - Advanced Topics

### Task 3.2

- SLA defines the level of service you expect fomr a vendor with metrics by which the service is measrues as well as penalties if the agreed service is not achieved.
- OLA defines interdependent relationship in support of a service-level afreement.
- A customer can use the OLA to get help with specific things defined in the SLA.

### Task 3.4

Systematic reading techniques outperforms unsystematic reading techniques because they make sure every aspect of the review is conducted according to the plan, rather than having indivudal people do as they like.

One example of systematic reqdin technique is defect-reading where each reviewer are given a responsibility to detect a specific defect.

## Task 4 - Multiple choice

1. D
2. C
3. B, D
4. A
5. B, C, D
6. B
