---
author: Joakim
date: 20.05.24
---

# Written answers

## 1 Testing Plan

a)

- The purpose of a testing plan is to make sure most of the use cases for a system are discovered during testing making the system as robust as possible.
- A test plan can also help with the budget, making sure resources are spent on the test that is the most crucial for system.

b) _PDF not provided. Can't solve this task_

c)

- One advantage is that the team will have a specific set of test they need to implement and test during development of the sprint. These test can be highly related to the issues that are to be worked on during the test.
- Some disadvantages is that it takes time to create a complete testing plan every sprint. Depending on the size of the sprint, this can take away valuable time that can be used elsewhere.

## 2 Types of Testing

a)

- Scalability test: Make sure the system can scale when it is under heavy load (when many users are using the same system at the same time)
- Stress test: Make sure the system works as expected even when under maximum load.
- User acceptance test: Make sure the system is userfriendly and ready for deployment.
- Operational acceptance test: Make sure the system is ready for operational use and meets criterias for deployment.

b)

**Scalability**

- **Pre-condition:** Have 100 simulated users ready to use the system.
- **Steps:** 10 users logging in to the exam system. Every 2 minutes have 10 new users login until there is a total of 100 users logged in.
- **Expected result:** The system is operating as expected and all the 100 users are able to navigate between the different exam questions.

**Stress test**

- **Pre-condition:** Have 100 simulated users logged in with answers to the exam questions.
- **Steps:** Make all the 100 users submit their exam answers all at the same time.
- **Expected result:** All the 100 users submitions are successfull and their answers are stored in the exam database.

**User acceptance test**

- **Pre-condition:** A short mock exam with dummy questions and a first year student who has never used an exam system like this before.
- **Steps:** Have the student log into the system, answers the questions, and submit his answers.
- **Expected results:** The student is able to log in, write/select their answers, and submit it without having to be guided.

**Operational acceptance test**

- **Pre-condition:** Deployed version of the system with a backup available.
- **Steps:** Make the system crash and restore it from the backup.
- **Expected result:** The system should be back up and running in under 5 minutes.

## 3 Requirement Elicitation

a) The stakeholder is the municipally of city where this system is to be implemented. Their goal is to ensure that the city has a sufficient amount of garbage bins spread around the city as well as to reduce gass, time, and resources on the collection of the garbage.

b)

1. As an operator in the waste management team, I sould be able to select a truck and see its current location.
2. As an operator in the waste management team, I should be able to select a trash bin and see historical data of when it was emptied.

c)

1. As a truck driver, I should be able to use GPS to navigate the city 99% of the time I'm operating a truck.
2. As an operator in the waste management team, I should get notification of status changes for trash bins that are less then 5 minutes old.

d)

Its important to document requirements systematically in software development too make sure every party in the development process understands the system and what the final result should include. This can also help split up and delegate the work to different teams and developers.

## 4 White Box Testing

a)

- **Test case 1**
  - **Input:**
    - month1 = 1
    - month2 = 1
    - day1 = 1
    - day2 = 2
    - year = 2012
  - **Expected results:** 1
- **Test case 2**
  - **Input:**
    - month1 = 2
    - month2 = 3
    - day1 = 26
    - day2 = 3
    - year = 2000
  - **Expected results:** 5
- **Test case 3**
  - **Input:**
    - month1 = 2
    - month2 = 3
    - day1 = 26
    - day2 = 3
    - year = 2012
  - **Expected result:** 6

b) Test cases from task a should also yield a 100% decision coverage

## 5 Sustainability - Vipps

a)

- In Norway people do not usually walk around with cash anymore. Because of this, vipps can help local events such as for example local football tournaments to bring some incomes to the teams playing by providing an opportunity to pay for for example kiosk groceries without having cash. Without a service like vipps, many people who would like to contrubite to local events would not be able to.
- On the other side, people who cannot afford smart phones might feel disconnected from the rest of the population that have access to this new technology.

b)

- Vipps can gain trust by giving its customer insight into their transaction and always being transparent with how they are handling their customers economy.
- Be failing to do so, they will most likely loose the trust of their customer, especially if something goes wrong (for example a transcation is made to the wrong person) and the system can not help track and solve the error.

c)

- In Norway and other well developed technology countries, people might think of you as outdated if you do not use Vipps or other similar systems.

d)

- As mentioned in a, Vipps can help arrange different local events that can help communities collect money for their objectivies. An examples of this could be, sports teams needing funding via kiosk sales.

# Multipul choice

## 6 Which definition best characterizes the term "traceability" in terms of requirements engineering?

- [x] Traceability of the requirements, along with the associated documents, from the requirements elicitation to the implementation.
- [ ] Ability to analyze requirements for contradictory content, especially between the requirements specifications and the test cases.
- [ ] Level of stabilisation between elicited and approved requirement.
- [ ] Monitoring of progress in requirements elicitation.
- [ ] Traceability of the effort for the elicitation of requirements, beginning with the elicitation of the documentation right to the point of requirements acceptance.

## 7 Which of the following statments in NOT correct?

- [ ] A minimal test set that achieves 100% path coverage will generally detect more faults than one that achieves 100% statement coverage.
- [x] A minimal test set that achieves 100% statement coverage will generally detect more faults than one that achieves 100% branch coverage.
- [ ] A minimal test set that achieves 100% statement coverage will generally detect less faults than one that achieves 100% branch coverage.
- [ ] A minimal test set that achieves 100% path coverage will also achieve 100% statement coverage.

## 8 If you were doing the code review of the following code what would you say

**Original code snippet:**

```java
public class Account {
    double principal, rate; int daysActive,accountType;
    public static final int STANDARD = 0, BUDGET=1,
        PREMIUM=2, PREMIUM_PLUS = 3;
    }

    public static doulbe calculateFee(Account[] accounts)
    {
        double totalFee = 0.0;
        Account account;
        for (int i=0;i<accounts.length;i++) {
            account=accounts[i];
            if ( account.accountType == Account.PREMIUM ||
            account.accountType == Account.PREMIUM_PLUS )
                totalFee += 0.125 * (   // 1.25% broker's free
                account.principal * Math.pow(account.rate,
                (account.daysActive/365.25))
                - account.principal);   // interest-principal
        }
        return totalFee;
    }
}
```

**Refactored:**

```java
enum AccountType {
    STANDARD,
    BUDGET,
    PREMIUM,
    PREMIUM_PLUS
}

public class Account {
    private double principal;
    private double rate;
    private int daysActive;
    private AccountType accountType;
}

public static double calculateFee(Account[] accounts) {
    double totalFee = 0.0
    for (Account account : accounts) {
        if (isPremium(account)) {
            double rate = account.getRate()
            double principal = account.getPrincipal()
            int daysActive = account.getDaysActive()

            float BROKERS_FEE = 0.125f
            float power = Math.pow(rate, (daysActive/355.25))

            totalFee += BROKERS_FEE * (principal * power - principal)
        }
    }
}

public static double isPremium(Account account) {
    AccountType accountType = account.getAccountType()
    return accountType == AccountType.PREMIUM ||
        accountType == AccountType.PREMIUM_PLUS
}
```

**Answer:**

1. The code can not be compiled with due to syntax errors
2. The code violates object-oriented programming principles
3. Code style can be improved accoriding to coding conventions
4. All cases of account types are checked

- [ ] 3 and 4 are correct
- [x] 2 and 3 are correct
- [ ] 1 and 4 are correct
- [ ] 2 and 4 are correct
- [ ] All are correct.

## 9 Data Flow Testing

## 10 Which statements are FALSE about Stubs?

1. Stubs are the modules that act as temporary replacement for a called module and give the same output as that of the actual product.
2. Stubs are used in bottom-up integration testing.
3. Stubs stimulates the activity of missing and not developed modules.
4. Stubs pass test cases to another code and invoke modules under testing.
5. Stubs are created when high level modules are tested and lower level modules are no developed.

- [ ] 3,4, and 5 are false
- [ ] None are false
- [ ] 1, 3, and 5 are false
- [x] 2 and 4 are false

## 11 Technical Debt

Which of the following statements is the most reasonable reflection on technical debt in software development?

- [ ] Technical debt should be avoided entierly in software development.
- [ ] Technical debt is not a significant issue in software development.
- [x] It is sometimes necessary to take on technical debt in order to meet project deadlines.
- [ ] Technical debt is all about testing system attribures, such as usability, reliability and maintainability.

## 12 Which requirment has a problem of ambiguity?

1. The maximum speed of a vehicle in a busy road shall be 10 mph.
2. The train system shall guarantee safe transportation of all passengers on their residence.
3. The transport system as described in requirement FR1 to FR56 should have a good usability.
4. The user interface of control board should be easy to use.

- [ ] 1 and 4
- [x] All
- [ ] 1 and 2 and 3
- [ ] 1 and 2

## 13 What is NOT true about non.functional requirements?

- [ ] Non-functional requirements are usually a cross-cutting concern that affect multiple functional modules
- [x] Non-functional requirements are usually specified together with their relating functional requirements
- [ ] Non-functional requirements define software properties and constraints
- [ ] Non-functional requirements are the criteria for evaluating how a software system should perfom rather than what it should do

## 14 Types of testing

What is correct:

1. Scaling tests are conducted to ensure that the system response time remains the same, or increases by a small amount, as the number of user increased.
2. A robust test ensures that the system can perform acceptably under worst-case conditions, under an expected peak load.
3. Testing of security requirements concers quality attributes such as confidentiality, integrity, and availability.
4. Safety assurance ensures that safety is embedded into the design and implementation in a timely and cost effective manner

- [x] 1,2,3,4
- [ ] 1,3,4
- [ ] 2,3,4
- [ ] 1,2,4

## 15 Which of the following are CORRECT

1. Equivalent class testing is a kind of boundary value testing

cba...

## 16 Deriving test cases

1. FR1
   1. Type: Functional
   2. Req: As a user I should be able to request a ride with a specific departure and destination address.
   3. Input: departure and destination address
   4. Expected: see confirmation that the request has been made and that the app is looking for a ride
2. FR2
   1. Type: Functional
   2. Req:

## 17 Verifiable requirements

- It is not clear from the requirment what "an enjoyable user epxerience" is and there is therefore now way to verify if this is satisfied or not with a provided solution,.
- "The software should follow the guide of universal design"

## 18 Defects secerity and priority
