---
author: Joakim
date: 26.05.2024
---

# Exam 2022

## Part 1 Case studies

### Q1

#### 1.

- A restaurant is a stakeholder with the goal of increasing sales and giving user satisfaction so they will revisit.
- The organization behind the POS system is a stakeholder with the goal of having as many restaurants using their system as possbile.

**Guide:**

- Clerks
- Customers
- Restaurant manager
- IT manager
- Software developers

#### 2.

Functional:

- Template: User stories
- As a user, I should be able to pay my meal using vipps
- As a restaurant employee, I should be able to see a list of all pending orders.

Non-functional:

- The system should be able to handle up to 1000 orders per day with a delay of maximum 2s per order.

### Q2

#### 1.

- Scalability test: Make sure the system can scale up and down when the traffic to the system changes. Want to scale up to make sure it can handle traffic when it increases. Want to scale down to reduce cost when there is not that much traffic
- Stress test: Push the system to its limit and see how much it can handle before things like error handling and other stuff goes souths.
- Load and stability test: Test how well the system can handle its maximum load at a longer period of time.
- User acceptance test: Make sure the system if helping the user of the system to perform their tasks.
- Operational acceptance test: Test how well the system is performing in a production environment with backups and other production procedures.

#### 2.

- Scalability:
  - Setup: The system shall be up and running in a production environment
  - Input: 100 entities using the system at once, every 5 minutes increase the number of users by 100.
  - Result: The system shall scale when the number of users increases.
- Stress test:
  - Setup: The system shall be up and running in a production environment
  - Input: 1000 entities using the system at once, every 2 minutes increase the number of entities by 100.
  - Result: See how well the system can handle the users and at what point the systems starts breaking.
- Load and stability:
  - Setup: The system shall be up and runnind in a production environment
  - Input: The maximum number of entities the system can handle using the system.
  - Result: Monitor and see how well the system can handle the traffic over a longer period of time.
- User acceptance test:
  - Setup: The system shall by up and running in a production environment
  - Input: Have users of the system perform a specific task
  - Result: The users shall be able to perform the taks within a set time period without any guidence.
- Operational acceptance test:
  - Setup: The system shall by up and running in a production environment
  - Input: Have the system crash and shut down
  - Result: The system shall be back up and running from a backup within 10 minutes. The backup shall be no older than 30 minuntes.

## Part 3 Open-ended Questions

### Q3-1

1. As a user I should be able to place and order and pay with vipps. When the order is complete, I should receive a confirmation email.
2. As a user, I should be able to request to reset my account password and recieve an email with a reset password link.

Unit tests only tests each individual module making sure they work as expected. Integration tests test that these modules works as expected when they are put together.

### Q3-2

You need to prioritize your test. There are many different ways you can prioritize them. Here are three ways:

1. Risk-based: You look at the impact of each of the test and give them a risk based validation like low, medium and high. Then you look at how often they might occur. Combining them you get a result that you use to rank them and choose the 200 first test in the ranked list.
2. Requirment-based: You take the 200 most important requirments and their corresponding tests.
3. Coverage-based: You take the 200 test thats yields the most coverage.

**Answer:**

1. Prioritization based on which part of the system changed the most
2. Prioritization of the tests based on the faulty parts of the system
3. Prioritization of tests based on the time they take to run
4. Prioritization of tests based on the time it was executed last

### Q3-3

- Secerity of a defect describes how much impact it will have when this defect occurs.
- Priority levels of a defect is something we assign to the different defects in order to prioritize which defects should be worked on to fix first.

Examples (Clothing shop):

1. New offers are not shown to 50% of the users.
   1. Serverity: Low -> Users can still use the website and shop clothers
   2. Priority: Low -> It can decrease sales as users are not aware of new offers, but they can still purchase the items they want
2. Email confirmation is not sent to the customers after purchasing an order.
   1. Severity: High/Extreme -> User will loose trust in the system as they are uncertain if their purchase was succesfull or not.
   2. Priority: High/Extreme -> This is something that should be worked on as fast as possible, dropping other issues that the developers have already started.

### Q3-4

- Unambigious requirement means that the requirement can not be interpereted in different ways.
- Verifiable requirement means that one can verify if the requirment is implemented or not using for example tests.

Examples:

1. Unambigious: As a user, I shall be able to find information about customer support at the bottom of each webpage.
2. Verifiable: The website shall load the landing page within 50ms.

### Q3-5

A traceabilit matrix is often a table that maps requirments to their implementation in the project and their test cases. It is used to make sure the project meets the requirements requested. It can also be used to link specific part of code and test to requirement in both direction (forward and backwards).

Forward traceability enables developers to take a requirement and see where it is implemented. It helps to makes sure all the requirements are met.

Backward traceability is the oposite where developers can go the other direction. This helps ensure there is no gold plating, meaning they dont implement more than they need.

Both can help with change impact analyisis, to see and analys what impact differetn changes will contribute till.

## Part 4 Code Refactoring

### Q21

1.

1) Floating numbers: Random numbers in the code that is difficult to understand the meaning of
2) Code should be encapsulated in a function with a descriptive name describing what the code does.
3) Nested if: with too many nested if it can be difficult to understand all the different paths of the code. Can split them up into functions or in this example a switch case can be used for the different movie types.

2.

```python
def calculateTotalRentalDays():
    total = 0
    for rental in rentals:
        switch(rental.movie.type):
            case MOVIE_REGULAR:
                total +
```
